In this video, we're going to see how to find the basis of a solution set for a homogenous system of equations.
We have a homogenous system written down here. And the first thing we're gonna do is we're gonna solve it just like we're working on a E3 problem.
So to do that, we'll write down the corresponding augmented matrix here.
So two, three one negative six zero one one one negative one zero.
Negative one  four negative six  negative 19  and zero.
And the first thing we'll do is compute the reduced row echelon form to
give us a simpler system to deal with. So go ahead and type this in to Wolfram Alpha.
It is one zero two three zero zero one negative one negative four zero, and the bottom row is all zeros.
So this corresponds to the simpler system,x1+2x3+3x4 is zero
And then x2-x3-4x4=0
Now we look at our matrix here, go ahead and circle those pivots if we like.
And we see that leaves us with two non-pivot columns.
So those are free variables. So we can let, say, x3 be a and x4 be b and we can rewrite our system in terms of x3 is a and x4 is b,
So we'll do that over here.
So we have x1+2a+3b equal to zero  x2-a-4b is equal to zero; we said x3 was a and x4 was b.
Now as soon as we solve for x1 and x2 in these first two, we'll be able to write down our solution set.
So x1 is -2a-3b, x2 is a+4b
x3 was a, x4 was b.
So our solution set is the set of all vectors of the form -2a-3b, a+4b, a, b.
Such that a and b are real numbers.
Now, the key thing to note here is that this vector can be split this up as a vector containing A's and a vector containing B's.
So the a part looks like this and the b part looks like.
Negative three b, four b,  zero, b.
And note that that's the same thing as a times negative two one one zero.
Plus b times negative three four zero one.
So our solution set here is actually. The span of these two vectors, negative two one one zero and negative three four zero one.
So we know our solution set is spanned by those two vectors.
So now what we need to do is find a linearly independent subset of those two vectors to have a basis.
The good news is because we have these two free variables, we know that these two vectors are always going to end up being linearly independent.
In fact, just look at these last two components, the one zero zero one.
So. We write down a set containing these two vectors, negative two one one zero and negative three four zero one.